ITS Project
Group 1: Christina Kunrath, Caroline Lechner, Antonia Schmitzer
 
1. Annotation Part in Recogito

Moulin Rouge Text
 
The text "Moulin Rouge General" is about the musical Moulin Rouge by John Logan. Regarding to the annotations “Moulin Rouge” was annotated as “dul:InformationObject”. 
But in this point you have to pay attention to annotate it with the mentioned class in the right context. Therefore, the numerous events regarding the musical were 
annotated as "dul:InformationRealization". These included, for example, the premiere of the Musical, Stage Musical or previews. Moreover, the class 
“acro:TangibleCulturalProperty" was used very often. The production, the set and the costumes were annotated with this class and in the further step related to the 
responsible persons or producers. Furthermore, this class was also used for all the specific theaters in the text. It was also noticeable that very often locations or 
places and dates were annotated and those were very easy to relate with other classes. Which brings us to the next point: the relations. Therefore, locations were very 
often related to persons with the property "core:hasLocation". Furthermore, depending on the context, the two properties "event:place" and "event:agent" were applied 
many times.

La Traviata Texts

The text “La Traviata by Giuseppe Verdi” gives a great historic overview about the development of the opera La Traviata. Therefore, the annotation class 
“dul:InformationObject" was used very often. La Traviata means “the fallen woman” and the opera is accompanied with some of the most challenging and revered music in 
the entire soprano repertoire. As the main focus of the play lies on the heroine, which is the fallen woman, the class “foaf:person” was used quite often and in the next 
steps relations were made regarding to the name of the actors. For those annotations like “Giuseppe Verdi” or “instrumentation” the properties “a-cd:hasAuthor” or 
“core:hasRole“ were mainly used.
 
In the document "La Traviata" there have been a lot of events to analyse. These could mostly be related to the year and the participating persons. Therefore, the 
annotation vocabulary "dul:InformationRealization", "foaf:Person" and "Tiapit:Timeinterval" has been used the most in the elaborated texts about the opera. Furthermore, 
countries and cultural places like “La Scala” and “London’s Royal Opera House” at which the events have been realized are mentioned several times in the text. Due to 
that fact, the annotation vocabulary “l0:Location” and “arco:TangibleCulturalProperty” plays an important role too in the analysed text. The class "roapit:Role" has also 
been used quite often. Regarding the Properties the vocabulary “event:agent”, “event:place”, “event:time” and “core:hasRole” has been used the most. During the annotation 
of the relationship between the persons and their roles it appeared that it would be useful to specify the vocabulary of "Roles". With the bare connection of the operas 
participants and their roles it was not possible to identify if their real life's role or their role in the specific play is meant.

The text “La Traviata in Pop Culture” was mainly about comparisons between the plays Moulin Rouge, Pretty Woman and the play La Traviata. The opera La Traviata was created 
in 1852 by the Italian composer Guiseppe Verdi and used as inspiration for the other performances. But Verdi also used an inspiration, Alexandre Dumas' world premiere 
"La Dame auc Camelias", which took place at the Theatre du Vaudeville in Paris. There are many similarities between the plays, which are highlighted in the text. Therefore, 
properties such as "a-cd:isAuthorOf", "a-cd:isInspiredBy" and „dc:hasTitle“ are often annotated to indicate which play belongs to which author and to indicate which piece 
was inspired by whom. Furthermore, "event:place" and "event:time" were used to better identify the premieres and the plays and their locations. The main classes used were 
"InformationObject" for labelling the plays in general, "InformationRealization" for more prescient details such as the premieres and "arco:TangibleCulturalProperty" for 
the specific theatres as „Paris‘s Theatre du Vaudeville“.

“A parade of stars in the arena for traviata” is clearly focused on the different actors and the roles they play. That is the reason why the classes “foaf:Person” and 
“roapit:Role” are by far the most used ones. These classes are connected with each other through the property “core:hasRole”.

Texts about Giuseppe Verdi

In the first text about the Italian composer Guiseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi, all his pieces and their year of publication are listed to give an overview of his works. 
These pieces were each marked as "dul:InformationObject", the year of publication with "dcterms:date" and were each linked with the property "tiapit:atTime". All pieces 
were also linked to the composer Verdi with the property "a-cd:isAuthorOf". Furthermore, Verdi's career and private life was addressed. A major role played his employment 
in Busseto, where he taught and composed at the same time and then published the songs in 1838. Numerous parts like „Teaching and Composing“ and „published a set of songs“ 
but also private occasions like his wife’s death have been marked as a “core:Event”. 

Within the second document about the Italian composer Giuseppe Verdi the focus lies on his numerous opera writings. They mostly have been generally described with the year 
of creation. Therefore, the vocabulary “dul:InformatinObject” has been used a lot during the annotation process of these texts. Furthermore, the musicians who inspired 
Verdi are often highlighted in the text. That is the reason why the class “foaf:Person” and the property “a-cd:isInspiredBy” have often been annotated. Apart from this, 
there have been described several important social events of Verdi’s life such as the births of his children and his wedding. While annotating these text parts about the 
composer’s social occasions it appeared that it would be useful to create a specific vocabulary for private events due to the fact that there already exists a word 
specification for cultural occasions but not for the social ones yet. 

Furthermore, from the text "Falstaff_Verdi" the paragraphs about the composers general work has been extracted and annotated. The class "dul:InformationObject" and the 
property "a-cd:hasAuthor" have been used the most.

2. Transformation into Knowledge Graph

The annotated textfiles were transformed into a knowledge graph with the automatic transformation tool pyrml.  In this process, there have occurred some problems. At first, 
there have been some errors while loading the textfiles into pyrml. Those errors could easily be eliminated after a detailed analysation of the annotations. After the few 
double annotations of single words which have been found were removed and the vocabularies exact spelling was reviewed, the textfiles could be successfully transformed into 
CSV files.

The biggest obstacle of the project was loading the CSV file in Protégé. With several computers each group member tried to open the CSV files in Protégé. Unfortunately, the 
file was always empty when the program was opened. No classes or properties occurred. After several days of trying, the loading into Protégé finally worked with one of the 
computers.

3. Elaboration in Protégé

As soon as the files were successfully loaded in Protégé, the different classes and properties have been optimized. All the connections to respective individuals have been 
summarized, so that every individual only occurred once in the graph. For example, the numerous different “Verdis” we have been annotating, were merged into one single Verdi.  
Several individuals which have not been necessary have been deleted and others were optimized through the correction of the vocabulary used. In order to being able to create 
a clear knowledge graph, all the annotated information which was not directly exactly connected to cultural objects, persons, places or events, has been eliminated. As soon 
as each group member has been finished the elaboration part, the protégé files have been merged and elaborated once again all together.

As an ontology extension, we created some new, more detailed vocabulary which was useful for the context of the annotated texts. First of all, we decided to create a more 
detailed vocabulary for the occasion “core:Event”. As already mentioned in the first paragraph about the annotation part in recogito, in the texts there have been discussed 
numerous cultural but also personal events. Due to the fact, that those two event types are so different, we created the new vocabulary “personalEvent”. Furthermore, the 
property “core:hasRole” was used for the real roles of persons lifes like Verdis role as composer but also for the fictional roles in plays like “Violetta” in La Traviata 
which is just played. That is the reason why we created the additional vocabulary “occupationRole” for the concept that classifies the real job of a once existing person. 
Apart from that, the class “InformationObject” has been specified through a vocabulary extension with the two mainly used categories of the class, which are “Musical” and 
“Opera”.

After the optimization of the annotated classes and properties, the knowledge graph’s layout has been developed. We created a graph with all the classes, properties and 
individuals and located the parts which belonged together as close and clear to each other as possible. Even we already extracted the most important information of our 
annotations, it was still a huge amount of data which was challenging to create one clear knowledge graph. Due to the fact that the knowledge graph is that huge with an 
enormous amount of information, there has been created an additional graph without the class connection but with different colours which explain the classes in order to make 
the picture and its content more understandable for people which did not participate in the project.

4. Website Creation

The website in hand which is describing and documenting our project has been created with HTML. As you can see, there have been inserted three pictures which visualize the 
three main topics of the project: Giuseppe Verdi, La Traviata and Moulin Rouge. Apart from that, there have been added some links which make it possible to get to another 
website of the respective three topics so that people can get more detailed information about the artist, the opera and the musical. Furthermore, we inserted two pictures 
which show both our knowledge graphs, the one with the direct class connection and the one with the indirect connection through the colouring of the classes. The website 
contains main headings, under headings and the running texts which are shown in different sizes. The main headings are additionally marked with some dark red colour in order 
to stand out. For the group name, there has been used a different typeface. Furthermore, the group name and the title “ITS Project” have colour bars in the background.

5. GitHub Repository

As a last step we created a GitHub repository for sharing the data, code and documentation of the project. It was easy to call an account and the repository which is called 
“ITS-Project-Group-1” into existence. There has been uploaded a file named “website codes and data” into the repository where both the documentation text of the project and 
the codes for the website’s layout can be found. Apart from that, directly in the repository there has been created a file called “project documentation” in order to serve 
a more readable version of the project documentation where the bare text with no codes in between can be found. Furthermore, both the big knowledge graph with all the class 
connections and the one where the classes are marked through colours have been uploaded in the repository. Additionally, a word document with the descriptions of the 
vocabulary extension has been uploaded. Moreover, the protégé files both with and without extensions and their codes are provided in the GitHub repository. 


